Notes.txt
Ethan Clark
CS 342 - Lab11
April 21, 2017

Execise 11.1

c. How do the external libraries (in the project pane) relate to J2SE and J2EE?

	The two external libraries in my project Lab11 are the JDK (Java Development Kit) and the GlassFish 4.1.
	These are the necessary libraries that we need to build our J2EE application. JDK 1.8 is basically what
	makes up J2SE (Standard Edition) and adding on the GlassFish libraries (JAR files) makes it into J2EE
	(Enterprise Edition).
	
d. Set the HTML title and body content to whatever you'd like. At what tier does this application run?

	I believe this application runs on the Web Tier.
	
e. What server does this step use to serve up your application? For a hint, look at what's served up at the URL:/.
	How does it compare with a typical web server?
	
	This step uses localhost:8080 to serve up my application. This is different from a web server because localhost
	is running on the local computer host, while typical web servers serve up applications from a remote server.
	
f. Skim through these sections, making sure that you can find the application features they discuss. What is a WAR file?

	A WAR file (web application archive) is a directory structure that is ready for deployment onto a web server.

g. What's the difference between "exploded" and non-exploded WAR files?
	
	In an exploded WAR file, the application server points to a folder containing the unzipped (exploded) contents of what would be inside the
	WAR file. This makes development quicker as most application servers can then change code and these changes will be reflected immediately.
	The non-exploded WAR file is the actual archive file that is ready for deployment onto a web server.

h. Compare and contrast EAR and WAR atrifacts.

	WAR (Web Application Archive) files are specifically made for web applications. EAR (Enterprise Application Archive) files contain all of the
	components that make up a particular J2EE application. Basically, EAR files are a superset which can contain WAR files. The EAR file contains
	an application.xml file the META folder; the WAR file contains a web.xml file the META folder (which is what we did for the lab).
	
	
Exercise 11.2

b. What library does this application use for REST support?

	This application uses the JAX-RS library for REST support. JAX-RS is the Java API for RESTful Web Services. This is found in the archived
	javax.ws.rs-api.jar file in the External Libraries section of the Project Directory/Structure