Gudie 14
Ethan Clark
CS 342
May 7, 2017

Work through the following materials this week:

	1. Read Section 30.1:
	
		a. Name and explain the four kinds of control measures required for database security.
			i. Access Control
				1) A security problem common to computer systems is that of preventing unauthorized person from accessing the system
				itself, either to obtain information or to make malicious changes in a portion of the database.
				2) The security mechanism of a DBMS must include provisions for restricting access to the database system as a whole.
				3) This function, called access control, is handled by creating user accounts and passwords to control the login
				process by the DBMS.
			ii. Inference Control
				1) Security for statistical databases must ensure that information about individuals cannot be accessed.
				2) It is sometimes possible to deduce or infer certain facts concerning individuals from queries that involve only
				summary statistics on groups; consequently, this must not be permitted either.
				3) This problem is called statistical database security.
			iii. Flow Control
				1) Flow control prevents information from flowing in such a way that it reaches unauthorized users.
				2) Covert channels are pathways on which information flows implicitly in ways that violate the security policy of an
				organization.
			iv. Data Encryption
				1) Data encryption is sometimes used to protect sensitive data (such as credit card numbers) that is transmitted via
				some type of communications network.
				2) Encryption can be used to provide additional protection for sensitive portions of a database as well. The data is
				encoded using some coding algorithm. An unauthorized user who accesses encoded data will have difficultly deciphering
				it, but authorized users are given decoding or decrypting algorithms (keys) to decipher the data.
				3) Encrypting techniques that are very difficult to decode without a key have been developed for military
				applications. However, encrypted database records are used today in both private organizations and government and
				military applications.
		
		b. Compare and contrast information security and information privacy.
			i. Information Security: issues related to access to resources
				1) Security in information technology refers to many aspects of protecting a system from unauthorized use, including
				authentication of users, information encryption, access control, firewall policies, and intrusion detection.
				2) For the purposes of the book, it will limit the treatment of security to the concepts associated with how well a
				system can protect access to information it contains.
				3) Security involves technology to ensure that information is appropriate protected. Security is a required building
				block for privacy.
			ii. Information Privacy: issues related to appropriate use of information
				1) The concept of privacy goes beyond security. Privacy examines how well the use of personal information that the
				system acquires about a user conform to the explicit or implicit assumptions regarding that use.
				2) From an end-user perspective, privacy can be considered form two different perspectives: preventing storage of
				personal information versus ensuring appropriate use of personal information.
				3) For purposes of the chapter, a simple but useful definition of privacy is the ability of individuals to control
				the terms under which their personal information is acquired and used.
				4) Privacy involves mechanisms to support compliance with some basic principles and other explicitly stated policies.
					a) One principle is that people should be informed about information collection, told in advance what will be
					done with their information, and given a reasonable opportunity to approve or disapprove of such use of their
					information.
			iii. A related concept, trust, relates to both security and privacy and is seen as increasing when it is perceived that
			both security and privacy are provided for.
		
	2. Read "Imperva's Top 5 Database Security Threats".
	
		a. Name and explain the security threats discussed in the article.
			i. Excessive, Inappropriate, and Unused Privileges.
				1) When you grant someone database privileges that exceed the requirements of their job function, these privileges
				can be abused.
				2) The complexity of applications and the corresponding data structures used mean that administrators are inclined to
				grant excessive privileges by default just to avoid the risk of application failure due to lack of access privileges.
				Thus, users may be granted generic or default access privileges that far exceed their specific job requirements, or
				they may simply accumulate such privileges over time.
				3) An efficient method to pinpoint excessive and unused privileges in the organization is to use database assessment
				and database monitoring with a user rights management option. 
			ii. Privilege Abuse
				1) Certain “Privileged Users” may abuse legitimate database privileges for unauthorized purposes.
				2) Database systems administrators (DBAs) have unlimited access to all data in the database. For the best security,
				DBAs should not access application data in the database (applicative data/tables) directly when they are
				administrating the database. When a DBA accesses the applicative data directly through the database instead of the
				application interface, he bypasses the application logging and retrieval limitations and avoids the application
				permissions and security mechanism. 
			iii. Insufficient Web Application Security
				1) There are many types of attacks on applications that can expose data. Two common types of web application attacks
				that target databases are SQL Injection and Web Shell.
					a) SQLi attacks are a result of incomplete or inadequate input validation that allows bad actors to pass SQL
					commands to the database via the web application in a manner that was never anticipated. 
					b) Web Shell attacks are a stealthy method used to gain unauthorized remote access to a server. Web shells are
					backdoors that utilize the web server core functionality (serving remote clients) to gain persistent remote
					access and obtain full or limited control over the server through an interface to the server’s shell.
			iv. Weak Audit Trails
				1) The failure to monitor for both security and compliance anomalies and collect the appropriate audit details of
				database activity represents a serious organizational risk at many levels.
				2) Additionally, organizations with weak (or sometimes non-existent) database audit mechanisms also find that they
				are at odds with industry and government regulatory requirements.
				3) Why are auditing trails so challenging?
					a) The first reason is that many enterprises turn to native audit tools provided by their database vendors or
					rely on ad-hoc and manual solutions and assume these approaches are sufficient. 
					b) Furthermore, native database audit mechanisms are notorious for erratic and excessive consumption of the
					database server’s CPU and disk resources, forcing many organizations to scale back or eliminate native auditing
					altogether. 
					c) Finally, most native audit mechanisms are unique to a database server platform.
				4) Second challenge: processing the audit
					a) Having the correct audit trail is only the first step towards protecting data. The second step is
					understanding the data activity and access attempts to process that data and determine credible threats
					b)  It is difficult to identify the entity that accessed the database and distinguish between DBAs,
					applications, users, and jobs if you don’t have the tools built for this task. You need to understand which
					accesses to the database are suspicious. 
			v. Unsecured Storage Media
				1) Numerous security breaches have involved the theft or incidental exposure of database backup disks and tapes.
				2) Taking the appropriate measures to protect backup copies of sensitive data is not only a data security best
				practice, but also mandated by many regulations.
				3) In addition, highly privileged users will often have direct physical access to the database servers. 
	
			§ Side Note: Insider threats can be categorized into three profiles: malicious, negligent, and compromised.
