Homework 13 Answers to Questions
Ethan Clark
CS 342
May 10, 2017

a. What type of noSQL database system is Oracle's NoSQL product, KVLite?

    - Oracle's NoSQL product KVLite is Key-Value NoSQL database type because it obviously stores keys with values in the kvstore.

b. The Internet Movie Database (imdb.com) is currently implemented in mySQL. If you were required to port it to a noSQL system,
    which of the noSQL system types would you suggest? Explain your answer.

    - If I would have to move the imdb.com database to a noSQL system, I think using a document noSQL database would be the best option. According
    to our reading guide, document databases provide a rich query language and constructs such as databases indexes, which would allow for an
    easier transition from relational databases to the noSQL system. The documents don't all have to be the exact same either, which may come in
    handy when moving data of movies where they might not have all the exact same type or amount of information for each movie.

c. Could you (efficiently) reuse the same key-value structure for exercise 13.1.d (above) and its "opposite", i.e., get the movies in which a
    given actor is cast? Why or why not?

    - I think the way in which I implemented the key-value structure necessary for exercise 13.1.d would not be able to be reused in order to
    get the movies in which a given actor is cast. I could probably implement this by simply switching the movieId and the actorId in the key structure
    so that it would look like /role/{actorId}/-/{roleName}/{movieId} and this key structure would allow me to do the opposite query of 13.1.d.

d. NoSQL databases are often referred to as schema-less or schema-free. Explain what this means using examples from your homework solution.

    - Schema-less or schema-free could mean that a developer does not have to specify a specific schema before entering in the data and sticking to that
    schema for all records of that data type when entering data. Instead, like in this homework, the developer can choose a way in which to store the
    data that makes sense for one kind of query. The way in which I stored the role table records is a little odd, but it helped me with the queries that
    we needed to run. The same data can get stored in many "key patterns" depending on the kind of query is going to be run.